### 2.3.1	Dissolution and absorption

Dissolution of the immediate release tablet of alprazolam was described by a Weibull function with the two parameters `Dissolution shape` and `Dissolution time (50% dissolved)` being fitted to observed PK data. As described in [Section 2.1](#21-Modeling-Strategy), different dissolution kinetics were developed for Xanax<sup>®</sup> and Solanax<sup>®</sup> formulations to allow a slower dissolution of the latter yielding a larger t<sub>max</sub>. Although alprazolam is sparingly soluble in water, no solubility limitation was observed in the model using a solubility value of 40 mg/L (pH 7.0). `Specific intestinal permeability (transcellular)` was also optimized to better match the observed PK data.

### 2.3.2	Distribution

In the model, the `fraction unbound (plasma, reference value)` was set to 0.233 which is the average value measured in young male subjects ([Schmith 1991](# 5 References)). Slightly higher values around 0.30 have been reported for mid-aged subjects ([Juhl 1984](# 5 References), [Ochs 1986](# 5 References)) which have not been applied in the current model. `Lipophilicity` was optimized within the range of reported values for logP or logD, namely 1.26 ([Greenblatt 1983](# 5 References)) - 2.19 ([Machatha 2004](# 5 References)), to better match the observed PK data. The observed PK data were found to be best described using the model for estimating intracellular-to-plasma partition coefficients according to the method by `Rodgers and Rowland` ([Rodgers 2005](# 5 References), [Rodgers 2006](# 5 References)). Cellular permeabilities were automatically calculated using the method `PK-Sim Standard` ([Open Systems Pharmacology Documentation](# 5 References)).  

### 2.3.3	Elimination

Alprazolam is extensively metabolized via CYP3A to give two major metabolites, α-hydroxy-alprazolam and 4-hydroxy-alprazolam. In the model, these two biotransformation pathways were described by Michaelis-Menten kinetics. The `Km` values for each pathway were fixed to reported literature values, namely 269 µmol/L for the α-OH pathway and 704 µmol/L for the 4-OH pathway ([Hirota 2001](# 5 References)), and the `kcat` values were optimized to better match the observed PK data while keeping the ratio between both values constant (by selecting the option `Use as Factor`). The gene expression profile of CYP3A4 was loaded from the internal PK-Sim<sup>®</sup> database using the expression data quantified by RT-PCR ([Open Systems Pharmacology Documentation](# 5 References)). As described in [Section 2.1](#21-Modeling-Strategy), the European Standard Individual used per default in the simulations was scaled to a Japanese individual with the `Reference concentration CYP3A4` being fitted to observed data reported by Yasui et al. ([Yasui 1996](# 5 References), [Yasui 1998](# 5 References), [Yasui 2000](# 5 References)) to account for ethnicity-related differences in anatomical and physiological model parameters. 

Following oral administration of <sup>14</sup>C-alprazolam, 20% of the dose have been recovered unchanged in urine ([Eberts 1980](# 5 References)). This information was accounted for in the model by implementing a glomerular filtration process and optimizing the `GFR fraction` to match the observed dose fraction excreted unchanged in urine. 